WS-I organization
Web Service interoperability organization
goal: It is a non-profit (opensource) organization established by the software gaints in the market, primarily focused for achieving interoperability

All the big vendors in the market formed together in standardizing the the standards that has to be used by everyone in achieving interoperability
The WS-I organization has standardized the standards to be used in achieving interoperability and has created/documented them in a specification document called BP 1.0
BP = Basic Profile 
BP 1.1 specification document

What is a webservice?
Any program that is written adhering (following) the rules defined as part of BP1.0 or BP1.1 specification document is called Web Services


The WS-I organization has not provided any api/programing logic in building web services as part of BP1.0 or BP1.1 specification, it has only defined standards that people has to adopt in building web services.
	
Now developers has to adopt these standards and build software application to achieve inter-operability, the developer cannot build software applications adopting these standards to achieve interoperability, so the programming languages has to provide apis in support of building web services within their own language

To build webservices in java platform, the sun microsystems has to provide apis
There are 2 apis provided by sun microsystems in support of building web services in java language
1. jaxrpc api = java api for xml remote procedural call (based on BP1.0)
2. jaxws api = java api for xml web services (based on BP1.1)
these apis inter uses lot of apis in building web services in java like
1. servlet/ejb
2. jaxp/jaxb
3. saaj
4. wsdl4j
5. jaxr
etc

The jaxrpc and jaxws are apis, which means these are partial and contains only interfaces/abstract classes only, so to build web services we need implementation for these apis
jaxrpc api
1. jaxrpc si implementation (sun implementation)
2. apache axis
3. oracle weblogic webservices
4. ibm websphere server web services

jaxws api
1. jaxws ri (reference implementation)
2. apache axis2
3. apache cxf
4. oracle weblogic webservices
5. ibm websphere server web services
6. wso2





















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
















