What is distributed technology?
The distributed technology is a methodoly or a technic through which we distribute a job to more than one people by dividing the job into equal independents parts,so that all the people can work in parallel in computing the solution is called "distributed technology".
	
When it comes to computer system, a software application is built-up of several components these components are distributed across multiple computers and tries to communicate with each other over the network in building/computing an common solution is called "distributed technology"	
	
What are the factors that influence us in building the applications based on distributed technology?
There are several factors that influence us in building an application based on distributed technology
1. if want quicker turn-around time in completing the solution/job then we need to for distributed technology
turn-around time = The time it has been started to till its completion is called turn-around time.
The quicker turn-around time means we wanted the job to be completed quickly. by assigning the job to one single person we can achieve quicker turn-around time unless we distribute the job to multiple people
2. if we want higher through-put then we need to go for distributed technology
higher through-put = within the given amount of time we want n no of jobs to be completed, we are not bothered amount how much time each job is taking
(or)
no of jobs being completed within the given amount of time is called "through-put"
3. We wanted higher-responsive systems with faster responsive time, then we need go for distributed technology.	
4. We wanted to build machine critical, high precesion and accuracy realtime systems then we need to for distributed technology
5. high-availability of resources then go for distributed technology
6. if we want high-utilization of resources then we need to go for distributed technology


	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	